URL_SOURCE: https://dining.umd.edu/nutrition-allergies-and-special-diets/allergy
TITLE: Allergies and Special Diets | UMD Dining Services

Allergies and Special Diets

We want you to eat confidently and enjoy great food. Our nutrition staff is prepared to help you manage your allergy, food intolerance; or dietary restrictions. We are happy to work with you to identify and select appropriate food so you can enjoy your meals on campus.

At the University of Maryland, we believe that a balanced and enjoyable diet is essential for overall health. We offer a variety of nutritious food options, carefully designed to meet your dietary needs, whether you aim to maintain your weight, reduce fat intake, track sodium, sugars, or cholesterol, or simply eat well.

Allergy and Food Intolerance Support

If you have an allergy or food intolerance, we are ready to assist you. Our team can help identify suitable food choices from the menu and, if necessary, arrange for specially prepared meals. We recommend filling out our allergy/intolerance form https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdV0725iVty2VmEpBAbzmCkdvrVdRldw3C2kxX_isC2QthXCg/viewform to introduce yourself and communicate any dietary restrictions. Once we receive your form, we will reach out to schedule an appointment to discuss your options and ensure your dining experience is safe and enjoyable.

Special Diets

A special diet is an approach that involves consciously selecting and restricting certain types of food or ingredients based on various factors such as health, personal beliefs, or dietary restrictions. We are ready to assist you in discovering which foods meet your dietary requirements. We recommend filling out our special diets form https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdV0725iVty2VmEpBAbzmCkdvrVdRldw3C2kxX_isC2QthXCg/viewform to introduce yourself and communicate your dietary protocol.

Nutrition Information

We provide detailed nutritional analysis for dining hall menu items, which you can access online at nutrition.umd.edu. The information is based on standard serving sizes https://dining.umd.edu/sites/default/files/2022-01/Elon%20Portion%20Size%20Guide.jpeg and follows USDA MyPlate guidelines https://dining.umd.edu/sites/default/files/2022-01/my-plate-recs.jpeg, helping you make informed food choices.

Click below to start a conversation about your specific concerns.

Allergies / Food Intolerances

 Contact Form
 https://forms.gle/rq8dLPC7qXfcjDGp7

Special Diets

 Contact Form
 https://forms.gle/rq8dLPC7qXfcjDGp7

Halal Diets

 Contact Form
 https://forms.gle/F4cPh4ae8PWkccNr6

Program Highlights

Certification

Purple Zone at 251 North certified Free From™ by MenuTrinfo - accreditation meets ISO 17065 standards as free from nine common food allergens.

The Good Food / Gluten Free Station at Yahentamitsi Dining Hall is certified gluten free by MenuTrInfo.

Visit https://www.menutrinfo.com/ https://www.menutrinfo.com/ for more information.

Program Awards

We are proud the support we provide people with allergies, food intolerances and dietary restrictions.

2025

NACUFS Grand Prize for Nutrition - Nutrition Team

NACUFS Gold Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

NACUFS Bronze Special Diets: Purple Zone - Nutrition Team

2024

MenuTrinfo, Best University Allergy Program – DS Allergy Program 

NACUFS Gold Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

2023

NACUFS Bronze Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

2022

NACUFS Grand Prize Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

2020

NACUFS Gold Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

2019

NACUFS Gold Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

2018

NACUFS Silver Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

2016

NACUFS Gold Innovative Wellness and Nutrition - Nutrition Team

The Purple Zone

The Purple Zone is a station in 251 North and South Campus Dining Hall where the food is free of the eight most common allergens (dairy, peanuts/tree nuts, eggs, sesame, soy, fish, gluten, and shellfish).

Purple Zones are open for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, serving many of the same menu items found at other stations – allergen free.

Purple Zone menus change every meal and repeat after four weeks.

Trained chefs wear purple chef coats and trained servers wear purple aprons.

The Purple Freezer

Each dining hall has a Purple Freezer - containing packaged entree and dessert items from popular brands such as Udi’s, Amy’s, Daiya and Enjoy Life.

Food items in the Purple Freezer are NOT free from ALL top eight allergens + gluten: they are marked with the allergens that they do contain. For example, Udi’s Sausage Cheese Lasagna is labeled – Gluten Free, Soy Free, Nut Free (contains egg and dairy).

An inventory of everything in the freezer and the allergens that they contain is posted on the inside of the freezer door.

Special Diets

Many students follow specific diets and we accommodate students who eat vegan, vegetarian or some other plans. Please complete the "Special Diet" form to receive more information.

We can better prepare for you and for future Terps if we have more information about know how many people with what special dietary requirements are dining with us. Please reach out to us.

Know Before You Go!

Dining hall menus, are posted on nutrition.umd.edu http://nutrition.umd.edu/. This website lists food served for breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the three resident dining location on campus.

You can filter your search by selecting filter options in the top right and you will see information about food free from ingredients you specify.

EpiPen

If you have been prescribed an Epi-Pen, we expect you to carry it with you everywhere and at all times.

In the event of an emergency, we have an Epi-Pen at each dining hall.

Managers and supervisors are trained in the correct use of the Epi-PEn. However, for your own safety, if you have been prescribed an Epi-Pen, please carry it with you.

Questions?

For questions about Maryland Dining allergy services, special diet compliance or nutrition program, reach out to our nutrition team at nutrition@umd.edu. We respond to requests in the order that we receive them.

If you are in a dining hall and want an immediate answer to a specific question, ask the manager or chef on duty. Front line servers may not be qualified to discuss specific allergens. There is always a manager and chef on duty – ask the greeter at the front door to find them quickly.